README.md, before:

# stratio-meta #

One LANGUAGE to rule them all

# Project description #

Stratio META brings batch and streaming queries into a single language. META provides a distributed fault-tolerant server architecture that has the unique ability to execute queries in Cassandra, Spark, and/or Stratio Streaming. From an architectural point of view, Stratio META is composed of:

   * meta-common : Definition of common classes used by other components.
   * meta-core : Grammar definition, statement parsing, validation, and execution.
   * meta-deep : Allows meta-server to support advanced capabilities such as SELECT with INNER JOIN.
   * meta-dist : Contains config files and scripts to start/stop meta-server and meta-sh in production environments.
   * meta-driver : Java API offered to client applications.
   * meta-server : Listens for client connections and executes requested commands.
   * meta-sh : The interactive shell; uses meta-driver to connect to the server.

## Full documentation ##

See the Wiki for full documentation, examples, operational details and other information.

See the [Javadoc] () and [Language reference] () for the internal details.

## Prerequisites ##

In order to execute META, the following elements are required:

1. A working installation of Cassandra. The Stratio-cassandra fork is required to support LUCENE indexes.
2. A working installation of Stratio Deep. Otherwise, advanced capabilities such as SELECT with INNER JOIN will not be available.

## Compiling META ##

Compiling META involves generating a set of files (.tokens, Lexers, and Parsers) from the different grammar files. To automatically build Stratio META execute the following command:

```
   > mvn clean compile install
```

## Running the META-server##

```
   > mvn exec:java -DskipTests -pl meta-server -Dexec.mainClass="com.stratio.meta.server.MetaApplication"
```

## Running the META-shell ##

The META-shell allows users to launch interactive queries against a set of META servers. 
Works both in Unix and Windows.
The shell features:

 - History support (arrow navigation)
 - History search (ctrl-r)
 - Token completion (tab)
 - Help command

```
   > mvn exec:java -pl meta-sh -Dexec.mainClass="com.stratio.meta.sh.Metash"
```

The shell also supports asynchronous query execution by means of the --async parameter. This execution mode is required for streaming queries.

```
   > mvn exec:java -pl meta-sh -Dexec.mainClass="com.stratio.meta.sh.Metash" -Dexec.args="--async"
```
## Packaging ##

```
   > mvn package
```
See [this link](https://github.com/Stratio/stratio-meta/edit/release/0.0.4/meta-dist/src/main/include/README.md) to know start/stop the server and the shell from the dist packages


## Useful commands ##

Once the shell is running, you can exit the program introducing the word **exit** or **quit** in the query prompt. A command help system is available by introducing the command **help**. A help entry is available per command, to check specify help topics use **help command**.

## More about the project ##

You can find more information about this project (tutorials, examples, etc...) in http://wordpress.dev.strat.io/

# License #

Stratio Meta is licensed as [LGPL](https://www.gnu.org/licenses/gpl-howto.html)

Copyright (c) 2014, Stratio, All rights reserved.

This library is free software; you can redistribute it and/or
modify it under the terms of the GNU Lesser General Public
License as published by the Free Software Foundation; either
version 3.0 of the License, or (at your option) any later version.

This library is distributed in the hope that it will be useful,
but WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of
MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See the GNU
Lesser General Public License for more details.

You should have received a copy of the GNU Lesser General Public
License along with this library.

Commit message:

Add --script option to Metash to launch an initialization script before showing the prompt. The command script has also been included in the Metash itself.

README.md, after:

# stratio-meta #

One LANGUAGE to rule them all

# Project description #

Stratio META brings batch and streaming queries into a single language. META provides a distributed fault-tolerant server architecture that has the unique ability to execute queries in Cassandra, Spark, and/or Stratio Streaming. From an architectural point of view, Stratio META is composed of:

   * meta-common : Definition of common classes used by other components.
   * meta-core : Grammar definition, statement parsing, validation, and execution.
   * meta-deep : Allows meta-server to support advanced capabilities such as SELECT with INNER JOIN.
   * meta-dist : Contains config files and scripts to start/stop meta-server and meta-sh in production environments.
   * meta-driver : Java API offered to client applications.
   * meta-server : Listens for client connections and executes requested commands.
   * meta-sh : The interactive shell; uses meta-driver to connect to the server.

## Full documentation ##

See the Wiki for full documentation, examples, operational details and other information.

See the [Javadoc] () and [Language reference] () for the internal details.

## Prerequisites ##

In order to execute META, the following elements are required:

1. A working installation of Cassandra. The Stratio-cassandra fork is required to support LUCENE indexes.
2. A working installation of Stratio Deep. Otherwise, advanced capabilities such as SELECT with INNER JOIN will not be available.

## Compiling META ##

Compiling META involves generating a set of files (.tokens, Lexers, and Parsers) from the different grammar files. To automatically build Stratio META execute the following command:

```
   > mvn clean compile install
```

## Running the META-server##

```
   > mvn exec:java -DskipTests -pl meta-server -Dexec.mainClass="com.stratio.meta.server.MetaApplication"
```

## Running the META-shell ##

The META-shell allows users to launch interactive queries against a set of META servers. 
Works both in Unix and Windows.
The shell features:

 - History support (arrow navigation)
 - History search (ctrl-r)
 - Token completion (tab)
 - Help command

```
   > mvn exec:java -pl meta-sh -Dexec.mainClass="com.stratio.meta.sh.Metash"
```

The shell also supports asynchronous query execution by means of the --async parameter. This execution mode is required for streaming queries.

```
   > mvn exec:java -pl meta-sh -Dexec.mainClass="com.stratio.meta.sh.Metash" -Dexec.args="--async"
```

Additionally, you can execute an script upon launching the shell. The script will be executed first, and the prompt will be shown afterwards.

```
   > mvn exec:java -pl meta-sh -Dexec.mainClass="com.stratio.meta.sh.Metash" -Dexec.args="--script /path/script.metaql"
```


## Packaging ##

```
   > mvn package
```
See [this link](https://github.com/Stratio/stratio-meta/edit/release/0.0.4/meta-dist/src/main/include/README.md) to know start/stop the server and the shell from the dist packages


## Useful commands ##

Once the shell is running, you can exit the program introducing the word **exit** or **quit** in the query prompt. A command help system is available by introducing the command **help**. A help entry is available per command, to check specify help topics use **help command**.

## More about the project ##

You can find more information about this project (tutorials, examples, etc...) in http://wordpress.dev.strat.io/

# License #

Stratio Meta is licensed as [LGPL](https://www.gnu.org/licenses/gpl-howto.html)

Copyright (c) 2014, Stratio, All rights reserved.

This library is free software; you can redistribute it and/or
modify it under the terms of the GNU Lesser General Public
License as published by the Free Software Foundation; either
version 3.0 of the License, or (at your option) any later version.

This library is distributed in the hope that it will be useful,
but WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of
MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See the GNU
Lesser General Public License for more details.

You should have received a copy of the GNU Lesser General Public
License along with this library.
