doc/src/site/sphinx/6_reference_guide.rst, before:

===============
Reference Guide
===============

Apart from the API, Crossdata provides a SQL-LIKE language based on standard SparkSQL grammar plus an expansion
described below:

CROSSDATA SQL - Introduction
****************************

This document describes the standard SparkSQL grammar expansion provided by CROSSDATA
that means that any SQL sentences accepted by SparkSQL will be compatible with CROSSDATA.

Along with the language description, different features like supported types or built-in functions
are included.

Table of Contents
*****************

-  `1) GENERAL NOTES <#general-notes>`__

-  `2) EXPANSION MAIN FEATURES <#expansion-main-features>`__

-  `3) DDL <#data-definition-language>`__

   -  `3.1) IMPORT EXISTING EXTERNAL TABLES <#import-tables>`__
   -  `3.2) REGISTER EXISTING EXTERNAL TABLES <#create-table>`__
   -  `3.3) TABLE CACHING <#table-caching>`__

-  `4) DML <#data-manipulation-language>`__

   -  `4.1) CREATE TABLE AS SELECT <#create-table-as-select>`__
   -  `4.2) INSERT INTO TABLE AS SELECT <#insert-into-table-as-select>`__

-  `5) SELECT STATEMENTS <#select-statements>`__

   -  `5.1) GRAMMAR <#grammar>`__
   -  `5.2) EXAMPLES <#examples>`__

-  `6) OTHER COMMANDS <#other-commands>`__

   -  `6.1) SHOW COMMANDS <#show-commands>`__
   -  `6.2) DESCRIBE COMMANDS <#describe-commands>`__
   -  `6.3) SET COMMAND <#set-command>`__
   
-  `7) SUPPORTED DATA TYPES <#supported-data-types>`__

-  `8) LIST OF CROSSDATA CONNECTORS <#list-of-crossdata-connectors>`__

-  `9) SUPPORTED FUNCTIONS <#supported-functions>`__




1. General Notes
================

-   In general, a quoted (single or double) string refers to a literal
    string whereas a string without quotation marks refers to an identifier.

-   Identifier: Used to identify datasources, tables and qualified columns.
    An identifier is a token matching the regular expression
    ([a-zA-Z0-9\_]+.)*[a-zA-Z0-9\_]+

Example:
    -   Column name:
        -   total
        -   myTable.total
        -   myCatalog.myTable.total
    -   Literal:
        -   “Madrid”
        -   ‘California'
        -   “New York City”

The following non-terminal elements appear in the grammar:

-   \<simpleidentifier\> ::= [a-zA-Z0-9\_]+
-   \<identifier\> ::= (\<simpleidentifier\>'.')*\<simpleidentifier\>
-   \<stringliteral\> ::= ( “ (\~”)\* ” | ‘ (\~')\* ' )
-   \<intliteral\> ::= [0-9]+
-   \<datasource\> ::= \<identifier\>
-   \<database\> ::= \<simpleidentifier\>
-   \<tablename\> ::= \<identifier\>
-   \<property\> ::= \<identifier\> \<stringliteral\>
-   \<functionid\> ::= (\<simple\_identifier\> | \<stringliteral\>)
-   \<schema\> ::= ( (\<columndefinition\>',)* \<columndefinition\> )
-   \<columndefinition\> ::= \<columnname\> \<datatype\>
-   \<columnname\> ::= \<simple\_identifier\>
-   \<data-type\> ::=
        string   |
        float    |
        integer  |
        tinyint  |
        smallint |
        double   |
        (bigint | long) |
        binary   |
        boolean  |
        decimal [(\<intliteral\>, \<intliteral\>)] |
        date     |
        timestamp|
        varchar (\<intliteral\>) |
        array\<\<datatype\>\>    |
        map\<\<datatype\>, \<datatype\>\> |
        struct\< (\<structfield\>',)* \<structfield\>\>
-   \<structfield\> ::= \<columnname\>:\<data-type\>

Please, check SparkSQL documentation for further information about specific statements. 




2. Expansion main features
==========================

Through the following lines you will find a description of those sentences provided by
CROSSDATA which are not supported by SparkSQL.

Expansion main features:
-   Added new table import capabilities:
        -   IMPORT TABLES: Catalog registration of every single table accessible by a specific datasource.
        



3. Data Definition Language
===========================

The most important thing to understand how the DDL works is to be aware of how Crossdata manages the metadata.
So, the basics are:

 - Crossdata leverages different datasources to store data.
 - Crossdata has a persistent catalog plus a cache where temporary tables can be stored in addition. The catalog contains metadata necessary to access that data as well as statistics to speed up the queries.
 
 Crossdata is focused on analytics, so the main use case of Crossdata is create a table to register 
 the metadata in the Crossdata catalog. However, when a create table is performed, it is not actually
 created in the specific datasource. For instance, if you are working with Cassandra, the table created in 
 Crossdata should have been created previously on Cassandra. There are some exceptions to this behaviour:
 a well-known use case is to store the result of an analytical query in a new table; in that case, it will be 
 possible to create a table as select which will create the table in both the datasource and the Crossdata
 catalog. CREATE TABLE AS SELECT is described in `DML <#data-manipulation-language>`_.
 
 
3.1 IMPORT TABLES
-----------------

It's possible to import all the tables from a specific datasource to the Crossdata catalog. It incorporates all the underlying metadata
needed by the datasource in order to create a Spark BaseRelation.

Once the tables are imported, they are persisted. If there is an existing table with the same name, this table will be
ignored.

IMPORT TABLES USING \<datasource\> OPTIONS ( (\<property\>',)\+\<property\> )

Example:

-   Cassandra:
::

    IMPORT TABLES
    USING com.stratio.crossdata.connector.cassandra
    OPTIONS (
        cluster "Test Cluster",
        spark_cassandra_connection_host '127.0.0.1'
    )

-   MongoDB:
::

    IMPORT TABLES
    USING com.stratio.crossdata.connector.mongodb
    OPTIONS (
       host '127.0.0.1:27017',
       schema_samplingRatio  '0.1'
    )
    
        
3.2 CREATE TABLE
----------------

CREATE [TEMPORARY] TABLE [IF NOT EXISTS] \<tablename\> [<schema>] USING \<datasource\> OPTIONS ( (\<property\>',)\+\<property\> )

Temporary: A temporary table won't be persisted in Crossdata catalog.
  
Example:
::

    CREATE TABLE IF NOT EXISTS tablename ( id string, eventdate date)
    USING com.databricks.spark.csv 
    OPTIONS (path "events.csv", header "true")


3.3) TABLE CACHING
------------------

It is possible to cache a table or a temporary table using the following commands:

- CACHE [LAZY] TABLE \<tablename\> [AS \<select\>..]

Lazy: If lazy is omitted, a count * will be performed in order to bring the whole RDD to memory without
waiting for the first time the data is needed.

- UNCACHE TABLE \<tablename\>

- CLEAR CACHE

- REFRESH TABLE \<tablename\> (coming soon) => Refresh the metadata cache.




4. DATA MANIPULATION LANGUAGE
-----------------------------

4.1 CREATE TABLE AS SELECT
--------------------------

The table will be created in both the Crossdata catalog and the target datasource indicated within the query:

CREATE [TEMPORARY] TABLE [IF NOT EXISTS] \<tablename\> [<schema>] USING \<datasource\> OPTIONS ( (\<property\>',)\+\<property\> ) AS \<select\>

Example:
::

    CREATE TABLE mongodbtable
    USING com.databricks.spark.csv
    OPTIONS (path "events.csv", header "true")
    SELECT sum(price), day
    FROM cassandratable
    GROUP BY day

4.2 INSERT INTO TABLE AS SELECT
-------------------------------

* INSERT INTO TABLE \<tablename\> \<select\>

Example:
::

    INSERT INTO TABLE mongodbtable 
    SELECT sum(price), day
    FROM cassandratable
    GROUP BY day
    
* INSERT OVERWRITE TABLE \<tablename\> \<select\>

It is quite similar to the previous one, but the data will be overwritten instead of appended.




5. SELECT STATEMENTS
====================

The language supports the following set of operations based on the SQL language.

5.1 Grammar
-----------
::

 \<select\> ::= ( \<selectstatement\> | \<subquery\> ) [ \<setoperation\> \<select\>]
 \<subquery\> ::= ( \<selectstatement\> )
 \<setoperation\> ::= ( UNION ALL |
                        INTERSECT |
                        EXCEPT    |
                        UNION DISTINCT )

 \<selectstatement\> ::=
      SELECT [DISTINCT] (\<selectexpression\>' [AS \<aliasname\>],)* \<selectexpression\> [AS \<aliasname\>]
      FROM   ( \<relations\> | \<joinexpressions\> )
      [WHERE \<expressions\>]
      [GROUP BY \<expressions\> [ HAVING \<expressions\>]]
      [(ORDER BY | SORT BY) \<orderexpressions\>]
      [LIMIT \<numLiteral\>]

 \<relations\> ::= (\<relation\> [\<alias\>],)* \<relation\> [\<alias\>]
 \<relation\> ::= (\<tablename\> | \<subquery\>)
 \<alias\> ::=  [AS] \<aliasname\>
 \<aliasname\> ::= \<simpleidentifier\>
 \<joinexpression\> ::= \<relation\> [ \<jointype\>] JOIN \<relation\> [ ON \<expression\> ]
 \<jointype\> ::= ( INNER        |
                    LEFT SEMI    |
                    LEFT [OUTER] |
                    RIGHT [OUTER]|
                    FULL  [OUTER]
                  )
 \<orderexpressions\> ::= (\<orderexpression\>,)* \<orderexpression\>
 \<orderexpression\> ::= (\<identifier\> | \<expression\>) [ (ASC | DESC) ]

 \<expression\> ::=
    CombinationExpressions => AND | OR
    NotExpression => NOT
    ComparisonExpressions =>
        = | < | <= | > | >= | (!= | <>)
       | <=> (equal null safe)
       | [NOT] BETWEEN _ AND _
       | [NOT] LIKE | (RLIKE | REGEXP)
       | [NOT] IN
       | IS [NOT] NULL
    ArithmeticExpressions =>  + | - | * | / | %
    BitwiseExpressions => & | '|' | ^
    CaseWhenExpression =>   CASE [ \<expression\> ]
                            ( WHEN \<expression\> THEN \<expression\>)+
                            [ ELSE \<expression\> ]
                            END
    FunctionExpression => \<functionname\> ( \<functionparameters\> ) => See `supported functions <#supported-functions>`_
        Special cases:  [ APPROXIMATE [ ( unsigned_float )] ] function ( [DISTINCT] params )


Though most of the language is similar to SQL, let's go deeper to some specific grammar for querying over partitioned data:

- Ordering statements
ORDER BY: means global sorting apply for entire data set.
SORT BY: means sorting only apply within the partition.

- Set statements
UNION ALL: combines the result.
INTERSECT: collects first query elements that also belong the the second one.
EXCEPT: subtracts the second query result to the first one.
UNION DISTINCT: deletes duplicates.


5.2 Examples
------------

Some examples using common statements are shown below:
::

    - SELECT name, id FROM table1
    UNION ALL
    SELECT name, id FROM table2


    - SELECT t1.product, gender, count(*) AS amount, sum(t1.quantity) AS total_quantity
    FROM (SELECT product, client_id, quantity FROM lineshdfsdemo) t1
    INNER JOIN clients ON client_id=id
    GROUP BY gender, product;


    - SELECT ol_cnt, sum(CASE
                       WHEN o_carrier_id = 1 OR o_carrier_id = 2 THEN 1
                       ELSE 0 END
                       ) AS high_line_count
    FROM testmetastore.orders
    WHERE ol_delivery_d <to_date('2013-07-09') AND country LIKE "C%"
    GROUP BY o_ol_cnt
    ORDER BY high_line_count DESC, low_line_count
    LIMIT 10




6. OTHER COMMANDS
=================

6.1 Show commands
-----------------

SHOW TABLES [IN \<database\>]

SHOW FUNCTIONS [\<functionid\>]

6.2 Describe commands
---------------------

DESCRIBE [EXTENDED] \<tablename\>

DESCRIBE FUNCTION [EXTENDED] \<functionid\>

6.3 Set command
---------------

SET key=value



7. SUPPORTED DATA TYPES
=======================

These are the supported data types by SparkSQL:

-  Numeric types:

   -  ByteType: Represents 1-byte signed integer numbers.
   -  ShortType: Represents 2-byte signed integer numbers.
   -  IntegerType: Represents 4-byte signed integer numbers.
   -  LongType: Represents 8-byte signed integer numbers.
   -  FloatType: Represents 4-byte single-precision floating point numbers.
   -  DoubleType: Represents 8-byte double-precision floating point numbers.
   -  DecimalType: Represents arbitrary-precision signed decimal numbers. Backed internally by java.math.BigDecimal.

-  Datetime types:

   -  DateType: year, month, day.
   -  TimestampType: year, month, day, hour, minute, and second.

-  StringType

-  BooleanType

-  BinaryType

-  Complex types:

   -  ArrayType[ElementType]: Sequence of elements.
   -  MapType[KeyType, ValueType]: Set of key-value pairs.
   -  StructType: Sequence of StructFields.

     -  StructField(name, datatype, nullable): Represents a field in a StructType.



8. LIST OF CROSSDATA CONNECTORS
===============================

This document keeps an updated list of connector that work with current versions of Crossdata. Take into account
that each connector listed may require different Crossdata versions.

-  Datasources (Spark-based connectors) => Implement some methods of SparkSQL Datasource API
-  Connectors (Crossdata-based) => Implement both SparkSQL Datasource API and Crossdata API.

Although all connectors and spark-based connectors can take advantage of Crossdata core, only Crossdata-based connectors support
certain capabilities like native execution, native built-in functions or table discovery.

Connectors taking advantage of Crossdata extension
--------------------------------------------------

-  connector-cassandra
-  connector-mongodb
-  connector-elasticsearch (coming soon)

List of Datasources (or Spark-based Connectors)
-----------------------------------------------

Datasources within SparkSQL

-  `parquet <https://github.com/apache/spark/tree/master/sql>`_
-  `jdbc <https://github.com/apache/spark/tree/master/sql>`_
-  `json <https://github.com/apache/spark/tree/master/sql>`_

External datasources

-  `elasticsearch <https://github.com/elastic/elasticsearch-hadoop>`_
-  `csv <https://github.com/databricks/spark-csv>`_
-  `avro <https://github.com/databricks/spark-avro>`_

A more completed list of external Datasources could be find at `spark packages <http://spark-packages.org/?q=tags%3A%22Data%20Sources%22>`_


9. SUPPORTED FUNCTIONS
----------------------

-  Native built-in functions:

   -  (coming soon) => cassandra-connector _link
   -  (coming soon) => mongodb-connector _link

Spark built-in functions (last update: Spark v1.5.1):

-  Aggregate functions

   -  avg
   -  count
   -  first
   -  last
   -  max
   -  min
   -  sum

-  Misc non-aggregate functions

   -  abs
   -  array
   -  coalesce
   -  explode
   -  greatest
   -  if
   -  isnan
   -  isnull
   -  isnotnull
   -  least
   -  rand
   -  randn
   -  sqrt

-  Math functions

   -  acos
   -  asin
   -  atan
   -  atan2
   -  bin
   -  cbrt
   -  ceil
   -  ceiling
   -  cos
   -  conv
   -  exp
   -  floor
   -  factorial
   -  hypot
   -  hex
   -  log
   -  ln
   -  log10
   -  pow
   -  pmod
   -  positive
   -  round
   -  rint
   -  sign
   -  sin
   -  sinh
   -  tan
   -  tanh
   -  degrees
   -  radians

-  String functions

   -  ascii
   -  base64
   -  concat
   -  format_number
   -  get_json_object
   -  lower
   -  length
   -  regexp_extract
   -  regexp_replace
   -  ltrim
   -  printf
   -  rtrim
   -  split
   -  substring
   -  substring_index
   -  trim
   -  upper


-  Datetime functions

   -  current_date
   -  current_timestamp
   -  datediff
   -  date_add
   -  date_format
   -  date_sub
   -  day
   -  dayofyear
   -  dayofmonth
   -  from_unixtime
   -  from_utc_timestamp
   -  hour
   -  last_day
   -  minute
   -  month
   -  months_between
   -  next_day
   -  quarter
   -  second
   -  to_date
   -  to_utc_timestamp
   -  unix_timestamp
   -  weekofyear
   -  year


-  Collection functions

   -  size
   -  sort_array
   -  array_contains

-  Misc functions

   -  crc32
   -  md5
   -  sha

Commit message:

doc: add a short description under statements

doc/src/site/sphinx/6_reference_guide.rst, after:

===============
Reference Guide
===============

Apart from the API, Crossdata provides a SQL-LIKE language based on standard SparkSQL grammar plus an expansion
described below:

CROSSDATA SQL - Introduction
****************************

This document describes the standard SparkSQL grammar expansion provided by CROSSDATA
that means that any SQL sentences accepted by SparkSQL will be compatible with CROSSDATA.

Along with the language description, different features like supported types or built-in functions
are included.

Table of Contents
*****************

-  `1) GENERAL NOTES <#general-notes>`__

-  `2) EXPANSION MAIN FEATURES <#expansion-main-features>`__

-  `3) DDL <#data-definition-language>`__

   -  `3.1) IMPORT EXISTING EXTERNAL TABLES <#import-tables>`__
   -  `3.2) REGISTER EXISTING EXTERNAL TABLES <#create-table>`__
   -  `3.3) TABLE CACHING <#table-caching>`__

-  `4) DML <#data-manipulation-language>`__

   -  `4.1) CREATE TABLE AS SELECT <#create-table-as-select>`__
   -  `4.2) INSERT INTO TABLE AS SELECT <#insert-into-table-as-select>`__

-  `5) SELECT STATEMENTS <#select-statements>`__

   -  `5.1) GRAMMAR <#grammar>`__
   -  `5.2) EXAMPLES <#examples>`__

-  `6) OTHER COMMANDS <#other-commands>`__

   -  `6.1) SHOW COMMANDS <#show-commands>`__
   -  `6.2) DESCRIBE COMMANDS <#describe-commands>`__
   -  `6.3) SET COMMAND <#set-command>`__
   
-  `7) SUPPORTED DATA TYPES <#supported-data-types>`__

-  `8) LIST OF CROSSDATA CONNECTORS <#list-of-crossdata-connectors>`__

-  `9) SUPPORTED FUNCTIONS <#supported-functions>`__




1. General Notes
================

-   In general, a quoted (single or double) string refers to a literal
    string whereas a string without quotation marks refers to an identifier.

-   Identifier: Used to identify datasources, tables and qualified columns.
    An identifier is a token matching the regular expression
    ([a-zA-Z0-9\_]+.)*[a-zA-Z0-9\_]+

Example:
    -   Column name:
        -   total
        -   myTable.total
        -   myCatalog.myTable.total
    -   Literal:
        -   “Madrid”
        -   ‘California'
        -   “New York City”

The following non-terminal elements appear in the grammar:

-   \<simpleidentifier\> ::= [a-zA-Z0-9\_]+
-   \<identifier\> ::= (\<simpleidentifier\>'.')*\<simpleidentifier\>
-   \<stringliteral\> ::= ( “ (\~”)\* ” | ‘ (\~')\* ' )
-   \<intliteral\> ::= [0-9]+
-   \<datasource\> ::= \<identifier\>
-   \<database\> ::= \<simpleidentifier\>
-   \<tablename\> ::= \<identifier\>
-   \<property\> ::= \<identifier\> \<stringliteral\>
-   \<functionid\> ::= (\<simple\_identifier\> | \<stringliteral\>)
-   \<schema\> ::= ( (\<columndefinition\>',)* \<columndefinition\> )
-   \<columndefinition\> ::= \<columnname\> \<datatype\>
-   \<columnname\> ::= \<simple\_identifier\>
-   \<data-type\> ::=
        string   |
        float    |
        integer  |
        tinyint  |
        smallint |
        double   |
        (bigint | long) |
        binary   |
        boolean  |
        decimal [(\<intliteral\>, \<intliteral\>)] |
        date     |
        timestamp|
        varchar (\<intliteral\>) |
        array\<\<datatype\>\>    |
        map\<\<datatype\>, \<datatype\>\> |
        struct\< (\<structfield\>',)* \<structfield\>\>
-   \<structfield\> ::= \<columnname\>:\<data-type\>

Please, check SparkSQL documentation for further information about specific statements. 




2. Expansion main features
==========================

Through the following lines you will find a description of those sentences provided by
CROSSDATA which are not supported by SparkSQL.

Expansion main features:
-   Added new table import capabilities:
        -   IMPORT TABLES: Catalog registration of every single table accessible by a specific datasource.
        



3. Data Definition Language
===========================

The most important thing to understand how the DDL works is to be aware of how Crossdata manages the metadata.
So, the basics are:

 - Crossdata leverages different datasources to store data.
 - Crossdata has a persistent catalog plus a cache where temporary tables can be stored in addition. The catalog contains metadata necessary to access that data as well as statistics to speed up the queries.
 
 Crossdata is focused on analytics, so the main use case of Crossdata is create a table to register 
 the metadata in the Crossdata catalog. However, when a create table is performed, it is not actually
 created in the specific datasource. For instance, if you are working with Cassandra, the table created in 
 Crossdata should have been created previously on Cassandra. There are some exceptions to this behaviour:
 a well-known use case is to store the result of an analytical query in a new table; in that case, it will be 
 possible to create a table as select which will create the table in both the datasource and the Crossdata
 catalog. CREATE TABLE AS SELECT is described in `DML <#data-manipulation-language>`_.
 
 
3.1 IMPORT TABLES
-----------------

It's possible to import all the tables from a specific datasource to the Crossdata catalog. It incorporates all the underlying metadata
needed by the datasource in order to create a Spark BaseRelation.

Once the tables are imported, they are persisted. If there is an existing table with the same name, this table will be
ignored.

IMPORT TABLES USING \<datasource\> OPTIONS ( (\<property\>',)\+\<property\> )

Example:

-   Cassandra:
::

    IMPORT TABLES
    USING com.stratio.crossdata.connector.cassandra
    OPTIONS (
        cluster "Test Cluster",
        spark_cassandra_connection_host '127.0.0.1'
    )

-   MongoDB:
::

    IMPORT TABLES
    USING com.stratio.crossdata.connector.mongodb
    OPTIONS (
       host '127.0.0.1:27017',
       schema_samplingRatio  '0.1'
    )
    
        
3.2 CREATE TABLE
----------------

CREATE [TEMPORARY] TABLE [IF NOT EXISTS] \<tablename\> [<schema>] USING \<datasource\> OPTIONS ( (\<property\>',)\+\<property\> )

Temporary: A temporary table won't be persisted in Crossdata catalog.
  
Example:
::

    CREATE TABLE IF NOT EXISTS tablename ( id string, eventdate date)
    USING com.databricks.spark.csv 
    OPTIONS (path "events.csv", header "true")


3.3) TABLE CACHING
------------------

It is possible to cache a table or a temporary table using the following commands:

- CACHE [LAZY] TABLE \<tablename\> [AS \<select\>..]

Lazy: If lazy is omitted, a count * will be performed in order to bring the whole RDD to memory without
waiting for the first time the data is needed.

- UNCACHE TABLE \<tablename\>

- CLEAR CACHE

- REFRESH TABLE \<tablename\> (coming soon) => Refresh the metadata cache.




4. DATA MANIPULATION LANGUAGE
-----------------------------

4.1 CREATE TABLE AS SELECT
--------------------------

The table will be created in both the Crossdata catalog and the target datasource indicated within the query:

CREATE [TEMPORARY] TABLE [IF NOT EXISTS] \<tablename\> [<schema>] USING \<datasource\> OPTIONS ( (\<property\>',)\+\<property\> ) AS \<select\>

Example:
::

    CREATE TABLE mongodbtable
    USING com.databricks.spark.csv
    OPTIONS (path "events.csv", header "true")
    SELECT sum(price), day
    FROM cassandratable
    GROUP BY day

4.2 INSERT INTO TABLE AS SELECT
-------------------------------

* INSERT INTO TABLE \<tablename\> \<select\>

Example:
::

    INSERT INTO TABLE mongodbtable 
    SELECT sum(price), day
    FROM cassandratable
    GROUP BY day
    
* INSERT OVERWRITE TABLE \<tablename\> \<select\>

It is quite similar to the previous one, but the data will be overwritten instead of appended.




5. SELECT STATEMENTS
====================

The language supports the following set of operations based on the SQL language.

5.1 Grammar
-----------
::

 \<select\> ::= ( \<selectstatement\> | \<subquery\> ) [ \<setoperation\> \<select\>]
 \<subquery\> ::= ( \<selectstatement\> )
 \<setoperation\> ::= ( UNION ALL |
                        INTERSECT |
                        EXCEPT    |
                        UNION DISTINCT )

 \<selectstatement\> ::=
      SELECT [DISTINCT] (\<selectexpression\>' [AS \<aliasname\>],)* \<selectexpression\> [AS \<aliasname\>]
      FROM   ( \<relations\> | \<joinexpressions\> )
      [WHERE \<expressions\>]
      [GROUP BY \<expressions\> [ HAVING \<expressions\>]]
      [(ORDER BY | SORT BY) \<orderexpressions\>]
      [LIMIT \<numLiteral\>]

 \<relations\> ::= (\<relation\> [\<alias\>],)* \<relation\> [\<alias\>]
 \<relation\> ::= (\<tablename\> | \<subquery\>)
 \<alias\> ::=  [AS] \<aliasname\>
 \<aliasname\> ::= \<simpleidentifier\>
 \<joinexpression\> ::= \<relation\> [ \<jointype\>] JOIN \<relation\> [ ON \<expression\> ]
 \<jointype\> ::= ( INNER        |
                    LEFT SEMI    |
                    LEFT [OUTER] |
                    RIGHT [OUTER]|
                    FULL  [OUTER]
                  )
 \<orderexpressions\> ::= (\<orderexpression\>,)* \<orderexpression\>
 \<orderexpression\> ::= (\<identifier\> | \<expression\>) [ (ASC | DESC) ]

 \<expression\> ::=
    CombinationExpressions => AND | OR
    NotExpression => NOT
    ComparisonExpressions =>
        = | < | <= | > | >= | (!= | <>)
       | <=> (equal null safe)
       | [NOT] BETWEEN _ AND _
       | [NOT] LIKE | (RLIKE | REGEXP)
       | [NOT] IN
       | IS [NOT] NULL
    ArithmeticExpressions =>  + | - | * | / | %
    BitwiseExpressions => & | '|' | ^
    CaseWhenExpression =>   CASE [ \<expression\> ]
                            ( WHEN \<expression\> THEN \<expression\>)+
                            [ ELSE \<expression\> ]
                            END
    FunctionExpression => \<functionname\> ( \<functionparameters\> ) => See `supported functions <#supported-functions>`_
        Special cases:  [ APPROXIMATE [ ( unsigned_float )] ] function ( [DISTINCT] params )


Though most of the language is similar to SQL, let's go deeper to some specific grammar for querying over partitioned data:

- Ordering statements
ORDER BY: means global sorting apply for entire data set.
SORT BY: means sorting only apply within the partition.

- Set statements
UNION ALL: combines the result.
INTERSECT: collects first query elements that also belong the the second one.
EXCEPT: subtracts the second query result to the first one.
UNION DISTINCT: deletes duplicates.


5.2 Examples
------------

Some examples using common statements are shown below:
::

    - SELECT name, id FROM table1
    UNION ALL
    SELECT name, id FROM table2


    - SELECT t1.product, gender, count(*) AS amount, sum(t1.quantity) AS total_quantity
    FROM (SELECT product, client_id, quantity FROM lineshdfsdemo) t1
    INNER JOIN clients ON client_id=id
    GROUP BY gender, product;


    - SELECT ol_cnt, sum(CASE
                       WHEN o_carrier_id = 1 OR o_carrier_id = 2 THEN 1
                       ELSE 0 END
                       ) AS high_line_count
    FROM testmetastore.orders
    WHERE ol_delivery_d <to_date('2013-07-09') AND country LIKE "C%"
    GROUP BY o_ol_cnt
    ORDER BY high_line_count DESC, low_line_count
    LIMIT 10




6. OTHER COMMANDS
=================

6.1 Show commands
-----------------

- SHOW TABLES [IN \<database\>]

List tables registered in Crossdata catalog (persisted and in-memory).

- SHOW FUNCTIONS [\<functionid\>]

List functions registered in Crossdata catalog.

6.2 Describe commands
---------------------

- DESCRIBE [EXTENDED] \<tablename\>

Show the table metadata.

- DESCRIBE FUNCTION [EXTENDED] \<functionid\>

Show useful information like description, arguments, etc...

6.3 Set command
---------------

SET key=value



7. SUPPORTED DATA TYPES
=======================

These are the supported data types by SparkSQL:

-  Numeric types:

   -  ByteType: Represents 1-byte signed integer numbers.
   -  ShortType: Represents 2-byte signed integer numbers.
   -  IntegerType: Represents 4-byte signed integer numbers.
   -  LongType: Represents 8-byte signed integer numbers.
   -  FloatType: Represents 4-byte single-precision floating point numbers.
   -  DoubleType: Represents 8-byte double-precision floating point numbers.
   -  DecimalType: Represents arbitrary-precision signed decimal numbers. Backed internally by java.math.BigDecimal.

-  Datetime types:

   -  DateType: year, month, day.
   -  TimestampType: year, month, day, hour, minute, and second.

-  StringType

-  BooleanType

-  BinaryType

-  Complex types:

   -  ArrayType[ElementType]: Sequence of elements.
   -  MapType[KeyType, ValueType]: Set of key-value pairs.
   -  StructType: Sequence of StructFields.

     -  StructField(name, datatype, nullable): Represents a field in a StructType.



8. LIST OF CROSSDATA CONNECTORS
===============================

This document keeps an updated list of connector that work with current versions of Crossdata. Take into account
that each connector listed may require different Crossdata versions.

-  Datasources (Spark-based connectors) => Implement some methods of SparkSQL Datasource API
-  Connectors (Crossdata-based) => Implement both SparkSQL Datasource API and Crossdata API.

Although all connectors and spark-based connectors can take advantage of Crossdata core, only Crossdata-based connectors support
certain capabilities like native execution, native built-in functions or table discovery.

Connectors taking advantage of Crossdata extension
--------------------------------------------------

-  connector-cassandra
-  connector-mongodb
-  connector-elasticsearch (coming soon)

List of Datasources (or Spark-based Connectors)
-----------------------------------------------

Datasources within SparkSQL

-  `parquet <https://github.com/apache/spark/tree/master/sql>`_
-  `jdbc <https://github.com/apache/spark/tree/master/sql>`_
-  `json <https://github.com/apache/spark/tree/master/sql>`_

External datasources

-  `elasticsearch <https://github.com/elastic/elasticsearch-hadoop>`_
-  `csv <https://github.com/databricks/spark-csv>`_
-  `avro <https://github.com/databricks/spark-avro>`_

A more completed list of external Datasources could be find at `spark packages <http://spark-packages.org/?q=tags%3A%22Data%20Sources%22>`_


9. SUPPORTED FUNCTIONS
----------------------

-  Native built-in functions:

   -  (coming soon) => cassandra-connector _link
   -  (coming soon) => mongodb-connector _link

Spark built-in functions (last update: Spark v1.5.1):

-  Aggregate functions

   -  avg
   -  count
   -  first
   -  last
   -  max
   -  min
   -  sum

-  Misc non-aggregate functions

   -  abs
   -  array
   -  coalesce
   -  explode
   -  greatest
   -  if
   -  isnan
   -  isnull
   -  isnotnull
   -  least
   -  rand
   -  randn
   -  sqrt

-  Math functions

   -  acos
   -  asin
   -  atan
   -  atan2
   -  bin
   -  cbrt
   -  ceil
   -  ceiling
   -  cos
   -  conv
   -  exp
   -  floor
   -  factorial
   -  hypot
   -  hex
   -  log
   -  ln
   -  log10
   -  pow
   -  pmod
   -  positive
   -  round
   -  rint
   -  sign
   -  sin
   -  sinh
   -  tan
   -  tanh
   -  degrees
   -  radians

-  String functions

   -  ascii
   -  base64
   -  concat
   -  format_number
   -  get_json_object
   -  lower
   -  length
   -  regexp_extract
   -  regexp_replace
   -  ltrim
   -  printf
   -  rtrim
   -  split
   -  substring
   -  substring_index
   -  trim
   -  upper


-  Datetime functions

   -  current_date
   -  current_timestamp
   -  datediff
   -  date_add
   -  date_format
   -  date_sub
   -  day
   -  dayofyear
   -  dayofmonth
   -  from_unixtime
   -  from_utc_timestamp
   -  hour
   -  last_day
   -  minute
   -  month
   -  months_between
   -  next_day
   -  quarter
   -  second
   -  to_date
   -  to_utc_timestamp
   -  unix_timestamp
   -  weekofyear
   -  year


-  Collection functions

   -  size
   -  sort_array
   -  array_contains

-  Misc functions

   -  crc32
   -  md5
   -  sha
